Welcome back now.
In the last lesson we moved our fetch collection start async method into our component did mount.
We also wrote this asynchronous redux thunk method in order to kick off multiple actions including updating
our reducer to being able to handle the asynchronous nature and state of our shop related API requests
related to our collections and getting said collections from firebase.
Well one issue you might have noticed or if you haven't.
I'm going to show you is that if you go to some collection page and you refresh you'll actually see
that it breaks.
The reason being that it cannot read property title of no meaning that the collection object is equal
to null when it tries to de structure title off of it.
Well why is this happening.
Well we know that what we've done inside of our shop is we're passing in this collection page with Spinner
and our spinner should be rendering a loading screen.
If our collections is empty that's the only possible way for ARC selector to be giving us a null collection
object and if we look at the actions we'll see that this is totally the case when our arrow longs the
previous state that we can see get logged by our action and Redux logger is such that our shop is in
its initial state.
If we scroll down after we actually see that in our action doesn't even fire because our app breaks
at that point.
So why is this happening.
Well as we know we put our async method inside of component did mount component didn't mount mount after
the initial render call meaning that when our first render call gets called on our shop component is
fetching collections is using the default fetching value which is false and passing false into our hired
a component with Spinner will cause it not to render the spinner and instead render our wrapped component
because is loading is false.
This is totally expected behavior given how our code is.
But the problem with this is that are our collection component when it initialize is and renders it
expects there to be some collections in order for it to actually render any state well.
This becomes a problem for us because we need to use a different selector rather than just checking
whether or not our collections is being fetched.
This is totally normal in many components where we can possibly wait before initializing a page where
some value is definitely expected to be there.
We can use art is loading as normal.
We don't want to ever move any of our API requests into the lifecycle method that occurs before component
did mount which is our constructor
we don't want to move our method in here.
That's a bad pattern.
It's an anti pattern.
The reason for this is because when ever a dispatch occurs inside of our application it triggers any
connected component right to re render because it calls that state.
In order for those connected components to get new values from the state we don't want this.
This is a bad pattern.
The reason why it's a bad pattern is because it causes all kinds of different render states to happen
right.
You just don't want to do this in the constructor.
It's highly suggested we move all of our API requests inside of component that mapped the other method
you might see in some applications to use is a method called unsafe component will mount this method
is also a lifecycle method that we have access to but it is not a method that we should be using hence
why it's flagged unsafe.
Applications before react 16 were using this method to fire off a synchronous event handling because
it's before the component mounts so it actually does get fired before our render statement.
How to react determined that it's unsafe because of the newest version of react.
All these unsafe methods actually fire multiple times due to the way that they're rendering now.
So it's not a good idea to fire multiple API requests inside of here.
In fact in general we should deprecate usage of this method which is fine for us.
We'll just figure out how to use our existing best pattern which is to fire off our API requests inside
of component did mount what we have to do instead is just make a new selector for this is loading value
where instead of checking whether or not collections is fetching we need to check whether or not the
collections value is actually loaded.
So what we can do with that is we can write a new shop selector and we can just call it.
Select is collections loaded
and what this does is it essentially just determines and returns a boolean value of whether or not our
collection is null or not.
So what we'll do is we will say shop because we're just selecting our shop reducer and we'll say shop
duck collections.
Right.
So that's what we want return but we want to convert it to a boolean value.
We know that default value is null and any other object value is going to be valid.
So I'm gonna show you a shorthand of converting a value to a truly or falsely boolean value it's actually
using the double bang.
If you've never seen this before.
If you call a double bang on any false value such as zero you will get the actual boolean value.
This also works for empty strings and anything else that evaluates to false including No.
Now we know that if we do any kind of object including an empty object we'll get true.
So if our collections is loaded we'll get true.
Otherwise we'll get false which is what we want to return from the selector.
So now if we pull this into our component we can add it to our map state to props value as is collection
loaded
and then we can pass now this into our collections page with Spinner as is loading value instead of
our is fetching collections.
So we'll continue D structuring off of props.
One thing we have to remember is that the value will be inverted compared to what is loading is expecting.
So if r is collection loaded as false.
Right.
So if our collection is not loaded then what we want to pass is that the is loading is true.
We want to tell our spinner to render.
So we actually need to reverse this value.
Now I know it seems kind of confusing because we've converted it in our selector and then we converted
it here.
But let's just think about this.
Our selector checks to see if our collections is loaded.
If there is no collections then there's the collections load it is false.
Right.
It's not true that our collection is loaded.
So our select is collections loaded will be false if there's no collections so if is collections load
it is false.
If we pass false into is loading we're just going to render a wrapper because our collections page with
Spinner only renders the spinner if is loading is true which means that if there is no collection we
want to tell that it's true which is why we need to reverse the value here.
So now if we save and we go to our application we'll see that it works as we expect it to.
Just like that so it's a little bit of a complicated thing that we have to do here.
But that's all it really comes down to is just that we need to make sure to do a new selector just based
on the way that our application is setup.
This just goes to show you that there is a multiple multiple ways that applications might be right you
might walk into an application where there are certain circumstances that prevent you from utilizing
your pattern the full optimal way you want to which is 100 percent fine.
Ninety nine percent of projects are not going to be perfect you just have to think about the things
that we've learned and where we've got to put our logic right.
Think about one that makes the most sense to you inside of the right places right.
As we know where to keep our logic and separate our concerns out into and add them they're accordingly
that's perfectly fine.
The more you code the more you will come across these situations where you need to come up with a solution
that is good enough for you on the spot.
And then from there is the only way you'll learn right because this right now causes no problems for
us and this is actually a very valid way for us to determine whether or not our collections has been
properly loaded in order for us to leverage our loading spinner state.
I know it's been a mouthful and I know these lessons are complicated.
I definitely definitely know but I promise you this is going to be a very very wonderful experience
for you to practice with because only by pushing yourselves with these difficult problems are we going
to see all the possible solutions we can take now in the next lesson we are going to focus on moving
our selectors where we have currently with our map states of props into their own component because
as we can see right now the only thing our shop page does with these selectors that we've pulled in
is pass them into these components so it doesn't make sense to keep this logic on our shop app instead
what we should do is move them into this component somehow and I'll show you how we can do that in the
next lesson.